RUMIS - Nonmonotonic Rule Mining System
=============


Tool Description
------------

RUMIS is a system for mining nonmonotonic rules from a knowledge graph (KG) under the Open World Assumption (OWA). It exploits association rule learning techniques. It first extracts frequent conjunctive queries from a KG and then casts them into rules based on conviction measure. The rules are revised by incorporating exceptions in the form of negated atoms into the rule bodies to improve their predictive quality. For example, based on given facts and a positive rule livesIn(X, Z) :- isMarriedTo(X, Y), livesIn(Y, Z); the tool may find out that the rule is not true if X is a researcher. As a result, livesIn(X, Z) :- isMarriedTo(X, Y), livesIn(Y, Z), not Researcher(X) can be mined in the final result. Researcher(X) in this case is an exception for the Horn rule.

### Knowledge Graph Format

The KG is presented in a tab seperated file containing triples in the format <subject predicate object> (format 1). You can see this format after uncompressing data/sample.imdb.txt.zip file in the repository.

### Horn Rule Format

Each line in this file represents a positive rule of the form
h(X, Z) :- p(X, Y), q(Y, Z) (format 2). Rules are sorted in the decreasing order based on their absolute support [1]. You can see this format in the output of positive rule mining function below.

### Exception Ranking

Exceptions for each positive Horn rule are ranked based on a particular ranking criteria. There are three kinds of ranking: Naive, PM and OPM. For the their definitions, please refer to our paper in [1].

### Command Line Options

Users can choose some of the following options to get a suitable mode for RUMIS:

 -e,--exe <arg>: This requires a function for execution, i.e., pos and neg are corresponding to positve and nonmonotonic rule mining, resp.

 -h,--help: This is the command line interface description.

 -l,--learn <arg>: This requires a KG file path in format 1.

 -p,--pos <arg>: This requires an Horn rule file path in format 2.

 -r,--rank <arg>: This requires a ranking type, i.e., 0, 1, 2 for Naive, PM, OPM ranking, resp.

 -t,--top <arg>: This requires number of positive rules with top absolute support.

Operating System and Required Softwares
------------

This tool is developed and currently tested in Linux, we may extend it to Windows in the future. Besides, Java 8 should be installed before running the system.

Usage
------------

First of all, please locate to the repository folder:

```
$ cd nonmonotonic-rule-mining
```

And then uncompress data/sample.imdb.txt.zip in the repository to get sample.imdb.txt file.

### Horn Rule Mining

Please run the Horn rule mining with the following command:

```
$ java -jar rumis-1.0.jar -e=pos -l=[path to KG file]
```

This will generate two files, horn-rules.txt for the positive rules and horn-rules-stats.txt with the presence of absolute support. Both rules in two files are sorted by decreasing order of the support measure.

#### Example:

Please download the repository and run the following command for executing IMDB Horn rule mining:

```
$ java -jar rumis-1.0.jar -e=pos -l=data/sample.imdb.txt
```

Two generated files horn-rules.txt and horn-rules-stats.txt can be seen in the same folder with RUMIS jar file.

### Nonmonotonic Rule Mining

Please run the nonmonotonic rule mining with the following command:

```
$ java -jar rumis-1.0.jar -e=neg -p=[path to positive rule file] -l=[path to KG file] -r=[ranking option] -t=[top Horn rules]
```

Revised rules can be seen from generated result file revised-rules.txt in the same folder with RUMIS jar file. Note that horn-rules.txt is generated by using above Horn rule mining function, or by another software. However, RUMIS currently only supports Horn rules in format 2.

The file revised-rules.txt lists the revisions of Horn rules from horn-rules.txt with the ranking option being specified in the command. Two main sections are presented in revised-rules.txt, the first one describes exceptions ranked for each Horn rule and the second one lists final selected revisions. As regards the first section, Naive ranking subsection is always presented on top of the file, followed by [PM | OPM] one if [PM | OPM] is selected, resp.

Every ranking subsection contains many parts separated by a blank line, each of them describes rules with exceptions. The first line of each part is a positive rule and its measure values with the format: <rule> <Conv> <Conf>. Conv and Conf are abbreviations of conviction and confidence measures, resp. Please refer [1] for definition of conviction and confidence measures.

The rest of each above part is top 10 negated atoms for each Horn rule which are sorted according to the decreasing order of the positive-negative conviction (PosNegConv) of the corresponding revision achieved by inserting the negated atom to the rule [1]. If two revisions have the same positive-negative conviction, the one with higher conviction has a higer rank. The format for describing each negated atom with its measures is: <not exception> <PosNegConv> <Conv>.

The second section of the revised-rules.txt lists chosen revisions for all the Horn rules. They are corresponding to the best exceptions of positive rules in the subsection of given ranking option.

#### Example:

Please download the repository and run the following command for executing IMDB nonmonotonic rule mining with OPM ranking:

```
$ java -jar rumis-1.0.jar -e=neg -p=horn-rules.txt -l=data/sample.imdb.txt -r=2
```

If you just want to revise top 10 Horn rules, please use -t option:

```
$ java -jar rumis-1.0.jar -e=neg -p=horn-rules.txt -l=data/sample.imdb.txt -r=2 -t=10
```

References
----------
[1] Hai Dang Tran, Daria Stepanova, Mohamed H. Gad-Elrab, Francesca A. Lisi, Gerhard Weikum. Towards Non-monotonic Relational Learning from Knowledge Graphs. In 26th International Conference on Inductive Logic Programming (ILP-16), London, England, 2016.
